# cs262-logical-clock Lab Notebook 
## How the model was built and design decisions 
### General Considerations 
We began by writing a Machine() class, which would act as the virtual machine/clock. Before beginning, we considered a few things--such as how the machines would communicate with each other, whether we would need to use sockets, etc. 

We decided to bypass sockets by using Python's multiprocessing package. By using the Queue() class from this library, we were able to create message queues that could be accessed, altered, and shared simultaneously across all the different processes of virtual machines being run. We ensured that the virtual machines were  being run in parallel by using the Process() class from multiprocessing. Indeed, the logs indicated the same system start time for each of the machines, so they all began running simultaneously. All of the plumbing, instantiation of processes and variables, and general setup of the program was done in run.py. The file vm.py only contains the Machine() class. 
### Machine() Class: vm.py 
Since the machines communicate using multiprocessing queues instead of sockets, they each must have access to all of the queues. When a Machine object is initialized, it receives its randomly generated number of ticks (per second), a list of the message queues of all machines being run, its own id, and the id's of the other machines (these id's are used to determine which message queue belongs to which machine). 

One issue that came up unexpectedly was the fact that qsize(), used to find the size of the queue, needed to call a function that was not implemented in MacOS (wth?? ikr??), so we couldn't use that to keep track of the queue lengths. Instead, we found a way to keep track of each queue's size by using multiprocessing's Value() class to initialize integer counts for each queue, representing queue size, that could be accessed and altered consistently across all the machines' processes. Each time a machine retrieves a message from its queue, its queue counter would decrement and each time it pushed a message onto another machine's queue, that machine's queue counter would increment. 
